docs: add concepts of targets (#917)
oras-project/oras-go: docs/Targets.md

- `mediaType`: The media type of the referenced content.
- `digest`: The digest of the targeted content.
- `size`: The size, in bytes, of the raw content.

An example of a descriptor for an [OCI Image Manifest](https://github.com/opencontainers/image-spec/blob/v1.1.1/manifest.md) is shown below:

```json
{
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "size": 7682,
  "digest": "sha256:5b0bcabd1ed22e9fb1310cf6c2dec7cdef19f0ad69efa1f392e94a4333501270"
}
```

## Interfaces

Based on the graph-modeling concepts and descriptors, the following major interfaces are defined in `oras-go` v2.

### Storage

The [`Storage`](https://pkg.go.dev/oras.land/oras-go/v2/content#Storage) interface represents a content-addressable storage (CAS) where content is accessed via descriptors. It provides the following functions:

- `Fetch`: Retrieves the content identified by the descriptor from the CAS.
- `Exists`: Check whether the described content is present in the CAS.

> - `Push`: Add content matching the expected descriptor to the CAS.

Reviewer: The verbs of the above 3 lines should either be "retrieves, checks, adds" or "retrieve, check, add"

Author: Oops! Why didn't the AI catch it😕

Reviewer: Good news the AI won't replace me :p

For example, consider the following graph stored in a `Storage`, where node names are aliases for descriptors:

```mermaid
graph TD;

M0["Manifest m0"]--config-->Blob0["Blob b0"]
M0--layers-->Blob1["Blob b1"]
M0--layers-->Blob2["Blob b2"]
```

The effects of the `Fetch` and `Exists` functions would be:

```
Fetch(m0) == content_m0

Exists(b0) == true
Exists(b3) == false
```

If a new blob `b3` is pushed to the storage, the graph would update as follows:

```mermaid
graph TD;

M0["Manifest m0"]--config-->Blob0["Blob b0"]
M0--layers-->Blob1["Blob b1"]
M0--layers-->Blob2["Blob b2"]
Blob3["Blob b3"]
```

> #### GraphStorage

Reviewer: Should this be ### instead of ####? Target and GraphTarget are both ###.

Author: Nice catch! I should change the `GraphTarget`  one then.

TagFoo>"Tag: foo"]-.->M0
TagBar>"Tag: bar"]-.->M0
TagV1>"Tag: v1"]-.->M0
```

### GraphTarget

The [`GraphTarget`](https://pkg.go.dev/oras.land/oras-go/v2#GraphTarget) interface combines the capabilities of [`GraphStorage`](#graphstorage) and [`Target`](#target). It provides the following functions:

- `Fetch`
- `Exists`
- `Push`
- `Resolve`
- `Tag`
- `Predecessors`

## Content Stores

In `oras-go` v2, a content store is an implementation of the [`Target`](#target) interface—specifically, the [`GraphTarget`](#graphtarget) interface.

The library provides four built-in content stores:

- [Memory Store](#memory-store): Stores everything in memory.
- [OCI Store](#oci-store): Stores content in the OCI-Image layout on the file system.
- [File Store](#file-store): Stores location-addressable content on the file system.
- [Repository Store](#repository-store): Communicates with remote artifact repositories (e.g. `ghcr.io`, `docker.io`).

### Memory Store

The memory store, available in the [`content/memory`](https://pkg.go.dev/oras.land/oras-go/v2/content/memory) package, stores all content in memory, where each blob's content is mapped to its corresponding descriptor.

> [!TIP]

> > The memory store is often used for building and storing artifacts in memory before copying them to other stores, such as remote repositories.

Reviewer: It would be good to mention that memory store is not persistent storage here.

Author: I think "in memory" already implies that it is not persistent🤔

Reviewer: OK

Manifest["Manifest<br>(sha256:314c7f...)"]--config-->Config["Config blob<br>(sha256:44136f...)"]
Manifest--layers-->Layer0["Layer blob 0<br>(sha256:b5bb9d...)"]
Manifest--layers-->Layer1["Layer blob 1<br>(sha256:7d865e...)"]
```

The corresponding directory structure on the file system would look like this:

```bash
$ tree repo
repo/
├── blobs
│   └── sha256
│       ├── 314c7f20dd44ee1cca06af399a67f7c463a9f586830d630802d9e365933da9fb
│       ├── 37f88486592fd90ace303ee38f8d1ff698193e76c76d3c1fef8627a39e677696
│       ├── 44136fa355b3678a1146ad16f7e8649e94fb4fc21fe77e8310c060f61caaff8a
│       ├── 7d865e959b2466918c9863afca942d0fb89d7c9ac0c99bafc3749504ded97730
│       ├── b5bb9d8014a0f9b1d61e21e796d78dccdf1352f23cd32812f4850b878ae4944c
│       └── e5727bebbcbbd9996446c34622ca96af67a54219edd58d261112f1af06e2537c
├── index.json
├── ingest
└── oci-layout
```

In the layout:

- All content, whether manifests or layer blobs, are all placed under the `blobs` directory. The path to each piece of content is determined by its digest.
- The `index.json` file is an Image Index JSON object. It serves as the entry point for the graph and provides tagging functionality.

> - The `ingest` directory is used temporarily during blob processing. This directory is ORAS-specific and is not defined in the OCI specification.

Reviewer 2: Also, this isn't really ORAS-specific. It is also used by `containerd` content store. Precisely, `io.containerd.content.v1.content`.

Author: Updated

- The `oci-layout` file is a marker of the base of the OCI Layout.

The OCI Layout offers several advantages:

> - It is fully compliant with `OCI image-spec v1.1.1`, ensuring compatibility with tools beyond ORAS.

Reviewer 2: nit:
```suggestion
- It is fully compliant with OCI `image-spec v1.1.1`, ensuring compatibility with tools beyond ORAS.
```

- Its clean and straightforward structure makes it easy to manage and replicate.

> [!TIP]
> The OCI store is a practical option for maintaining a local copy of a remote repository.

> ### File Store

Reviewer 2: Do you want to mention the folders for file store in the next PR?

Author: Let me add it in this PR

| ---------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ------------------------------ | --------------------------- | ------------------------------------------ |
| Memory Store     | Stores everything in memory                                                        | No                             | Yes                         | Memory caching, testing                    |
| OCI Store        | Stores content in OCI-Image layout on the file system                              | Yes                            | Yes                         | Local cache or copy of remote repositories |
| File Store       | Stores location-addressable content on file system                                 | Partial (For named blobs only) | Yes                         | Packaging arbitrary files                   |
| Repository Store | Communicates with remote artifact repositories (e.g. `ghcr.io`, `docker.io`, etc.) | Yes                            | Partial (via Referrers API) | Accessing remote repositories              |

> ### How to choose the appropriate content store

Reviewer: This section is super helpful!

- The `oci-layout` file is a marker of the base of the OCI Layout.

The OCI Layout offers several advantages:

- It is fully compliant with OCI `image-spec v1.1.1`, ensuring compatibility with tools beyond ORAS.
- Its clean and straightforward structure makes it easy to manage and replicate.

> [!TIP]
> The OCI store is a practical option for maintaining a local copy of a remote repository.

### File Store

The file store, available in the [`content/file`](https://pkg.go.dev/oras.land/oras-go/v2/content/file) package, supports both content-addressable and location-addressable storage. It is designed for packaging arbitrary files or directories and allows adding them directly from the local file system.

When a file or directory is added, a descriptor is generated with necessary annotations to store related metadata.

For example, consider the following directory structure on the disk:

```bash
$ tree
.
├── hello.txt
└── mydir
    ├── bar.txt
    └── foo.txt

$ cat hello.txt
hello

$ cat mydir/foo.txt
foo

$ cat mydir/bar.txt
bar
```

> Adding a single file, such as `hello.txt`, generates a descriptor for the file blob with an `"org.opencontainers.image.title"` annotation indicating the file's name:

Author: Revised

```json
{
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.custom",
  "digest": "sha256:5891b5b522d5df086d0ff0b110fbd9d21bb4fc7163af34d08286a2e846f6be03",
  "size": 6,
  "annotations": {
    "org.opencontainers.image.title": "hello.txt"
  }
}
```

> Adding a directory, such as `mydir`, packs and compresses it into a directory blob, generating a descriptor with multiple annotations:

Author: Revised

}
```

## Interfaces

Based on the graph-modeling concepts and descriptors, the following major interfaces are defined in `oras-go` v2.

### Storage

The [`Storage`](https://pkg.go.dev/oras.land/oras-go/v2/content#Storage) interface represents a content-addressable storage (CAS) where content is accessed via descriptors. It provides the following functions:

- `Fetch`: Retrieves the content identified by the descriptor from the CAS.
- `Exists`: Checks whether the described content is present in the CAS.
- `Push`: Adds content matching the expected descriptor to the CAS.

For example, consider the following graph stored in a `Storage`, where node names are aliases for descriptors:

```mermaid
graph TD;

M0["Manifest m0"]--config-->Blob0["Blob b0"]
M0--layers-->Blob1["Blob b1"]
M0--layers-->Blob2["Blob b2"]
```

The effects of the `Fetch` and `Exists` functions would be:

```
Fetch(m0) == content_m0

Exists(b0) == true
Exists(b3) == false
```

If a new blob `b3` is pushed to the storage, the graph would update as follows:

```mermaid
graph TD;

M0["Manifest m0"]--config-->Blob0["Blob b0"]
M0--layers-->Blob1["Blob b1"]
M0--layers-->Blob2["Blob b2"]
Blob3["Blob b3"]
```

> #### GraphStorage

Reviewer: This is still #### instead of ###. Maybe you forgot to change it?

The [`GraphStorage`](https://pkg.go.dev/oras.land/oras-go/v2/content#GraphStorage) interface extends [`Storage`](#storage) by adding support for predecessor finding. It provides the following functions:

- `Fetch`
- `Exists`
- `Push`
- **`Predecessors`**: Finds out the nodes directly pointing to a given node in the graph.

For the [same graph](#storage), the `Predecessors` function would act as follows:

```
Predecessors(b0) == [m0]
Predecessors(m0) == []
```

### Target

The [`Target`](https://pkg.go.dev/oras.land/oras-go/v2#Target) interface represents a CAS with tagging capability. It provides the following functions:

- `Fetch`
- `Exists`
- `Push`
- **`Resolve`**: Resolves a tag string to a descriptor.
- **`Tag`**: Associates a descriptor with a tag string.

For example, consider a graph stored in a Target, where `m0` is associated with two tags, `"foo"` and `"bar"`:

```mermaid
graph TD;

M0["Manifest m0"]--config-->Blob0["Blob b0"]
M0--layers-->Blob1["Blob b1"]
M0--layers-->Blob2["Blob b2"]

TagFoo>"Tag: foo"]-.->M0

> TagBar>"Tag: bar"]-.->M0

Author: This is by design

> TagBar>"Tag: bar"]-.->M0

Author: This is by design

```

The effects of the `Resolve` function would be:

```
  Resolve("foo") == m0
  Resolve("bar") == m0
Resolve("hello") == nil
```

If a new tag `"v1"` is added to `m0`, the graph would update as follows:

```mermaid
graph TD;

M0["Manifest m0"]--config-->Blob0["Blob b0"]
M0--layers-->Blob1["Blob b1"]
M0--layers-->Blob2["Blob b2"]

TagFoo>"Tag: foo"]-.->M0

> TagBar>"Tag: bar"]-.->M0

Author: This is by design

> TagV1>"Tag: v1"]-.->M0

Author: This is by design

> TagV1>"Tag: v1"]-.->M0

Author: This is by design

```json
{
  "schemaVersion": 2,
  "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.image.manifest.v1+json",
  "artifactType": "application/vnd.example",
  "config": {
    "mediaType": "application/vnd.oci.empty.v1+json",
    "digest": "sha256:44136fa355b3678a1146ad16f7e8649e94fb4fc21fe77e8310c060f61caaff8a",
    "size": 2,
    "data": "e30="
  },
  "layers": [
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.custom",
      "digest": "sha256:5891b5b522d5df086d0ff0b110fbd9d21bb4fc7163af34d08286a2e846f6be03",
      "size": 6,
      "annotations": {
        "org.opencontainers.image.title": "hello.txt"
      }
    },
    {
      "mediaType": "application/vnd.custom.tar+gzip",
      "digest": "sha256:b14fa80f5afd3822dce52a711566586c8f89e5dc211e4b0d2819f219b102fe7a",
      "size": 164,
      "annotations": {
        "io.deis.oras.content.digest": "sha256:9d418a0549e5bc45d195aacec889d30e520b9f2bd9feab57d57de6d9cdd66172",
        "io.deis.oras.content.unpack": "true",
        "org.opencontainers.image.title": "mydir"
      }
    }
  ],
  "annotations": {
    "org.opencontainers.image.created": "2025-03-07T08:34:23Z"
  }
}
```

> In the file store, blobs with names are location-addressed by file paths, while other content (e.g., manifests and config blobs) is maintained in fallback storage. By default, the fallback storage is a limited in-memory CAS store.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the file store, blobs with names are location-addressed by file paths, while other content (e.g., manifests or config blobs) is maintained in fallback storage. By default, the fallback storage is a limited in-memory CAS store.
```
If there are no other content types other than manifests and config blobs, this should be an i.e.

Author: There could be unnamed layer blobs

For the above example, the graph stored in the file store would be like this:

```mermaid
graph TD;

Manifest["Manifest<br>(in memory)"]--config-->Config["Config blob<br>(in memory)"]
Manifest--layers-->Layer0["hello.txt<br>(on disk)"]
Manifest--layers-->Layer1["mydir<br>(on disk)"]
```

> Unlike the OCI store, only named contents (e.g., `hello.txt` and `mydir`) are persisted on disk in the file store, while all metadata are stored in memory.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
File Store only persists named contents (e.g., `hello.txt` and `mydir`) on disk, while all metadata is stored in memory.
```
